In the military, there are rules all over the place. Sometimes it's in
the best interest of yourself and the people you work with to break
the rules. This can be when you're giving some instructions and you
yourself know the right thing to do. In those cases, you have to break
the rules. So, this could be, an example could be, let's say you're
supposed to do preventive maintenance on these three panels and
because your time is, kind of, short, maybe the supervisor says, "Only
just do those two. Forget about the third one." Or, "You're supposed
to do all three of them and you're supposed to read the notes but
just do it as fast as possible" you know, and he tells you that you're
supposed to do it in a time that you can't possibly do it in. So,
it's okay to break his rules in order to do the procedure correctly.
You should never disregard the procedure though. If it's written
down somewhere in words, don't ever break those rules. If you want
to get trouble, if you want to get kicked out of the military, then
be my guest, break those rules and, you know, you're going to be the
first one out. But when it comes to the things that aren't black and
white, when it comes to things that are, kind of, morally right or
wrong, then you have to think about it yourself and think, "Well, what
was I thought, that's right?"  and so, for instance, an example
would be, if you're out and you're at a bar and there's this drunk person
and you're supposed to, let's say, bring him home, bring him back
to the ship. But you know if you bring him back to the ship, that
he's going to get in lots of trouble, maybe he will be kicked out
of the military or something like that. Maybe, in that case you'll probably
be wise to, for instance, not show him around the town, not
show everyone that he's a drunk sailor, not bring him back to the ship
so that, you know, he can be, you know, court martialed or something
like that. Probably better, you know, think about it as a wise person
to break the rule in that case. Find a nice hotel for him and
then call your Chief as soon as possible to ask what the right thing
to do is. Even though it's past your curfew time, you know, it's better
to, you know, think smartly and wisely what's in the best interests
of the United States military and do things that take common sense
rather than, you know, this is the rule, you have to stand by. So,
things like that happen all the time in the military.